docs/git.md, before:

_Author: Gustav Janér_

# Git commands

## CLONE
```
$ git clone <repoUrl>   # Download remote repository to local environment
```


## BRANCH
```
$ git branch                    # List all local branches
$ git branch -a                 # List all local and Remote branches of repo
$ git branch <newBranch>        # Creates a new branch (without 'checking it out'/redirecting HEAD)

$ git checkout <branch>         # Redirect HEAD to an existing branch
$ git checkout -b <newBranch>   # Create a new local branch and redirect HEAD to it (short command)

$ git branch -d <branch>        # Remove a Local  branch
$ git push origin :<branch>     # Remove a Remote branch
```


### Set a Remote Tracking/Upstream Branch of a local branch
#### Use flag -u when Pushing
```
$ git push -u origin <branch>   # If Remote branch does not already exist in repo: Remote branch is created and set as Upstream
```

#### Set the Upstream branch to an Existing Remote branch
```
$ git branch --set-upstream-to=origin/dev   # Set upstream branch of current branch
$ git branch -u origin/dev                  # Short command
```


## CHECKOUT
```
$ git checkout                  # Less detailed than $ git status
$ git checkout -- <file>        # Discard(--hard) changes of an Unstaged file in working directory

$ git checkout -b <newBranch>   # Create a new local branch and check out/redirect HEAD to it
$ git checkout <branch>         # Redirect HEAD to an existing branch
$ git checkout <commitHash>     # Redirect HEAD to a specific commit - Detached HEAD state
```


## ADD
Stages files for `commit`
```
$ git add .               # Stage all modified files
$ git add *               # Stage all modified files

$ git add <file>          # Stage a single file

$ git reset HEAD          # Unstage all files (--soft)
$ git reset HEAD <file>   # Unstage a single file
```



## COMMIT
```
$ git commit -m “commit message“   # Commit all Staged files with the given message
$ git commit                       # Enter text editor to write commit message. Save to commit
```


## PUSH
```
$ git push   # Push all Commits of current Local branch to its Remote Tracking branch
```

### If current Local branch has no Upstream branch
```
$ git push -u origin <branch>   # If Remote branch does not already exist in repo: Remote branch is created and set as Upstream
```

## RESET
```
$ git reset HEAD <file>    # Unstage single file
$ git reset HEAD           # Unstage all files (--soft)

$ git reset --hard         # Discard all uncommitted changes on current branch
```

**Careful:** `reset --hard`\
All local changes currently made will be **lost**. To undo a `reset`:
```
$ git reset HEAD@{1}   # CANNOT though recover changes that were NOT previously Staged
```

### Uncommit unpushed Commits
```
$ git reset --soft HEAD~1   # Reset the most recent commit - Keeping the changes of the commit
$ git reset --soft HEAD~n   # Reset the n number of recent commits

$ git reset --hard HEAD~1   # Reset the most recent commit - Discarding the changes of the commit
$ git reset --hard HEAD~n   # Reset the n number of recent commits
```

### Uncommit pushed commits
Use any of the above `reset` commands and then force `push` to remove the commit from remote branch
```
$ git push -f
```


## REVERT
Reverts a `commit` that is already pushed to Remote repo
```
$ git revert <commitHash>   # Create a new commit which reverts the changes of the commit you specified
```


## FETCH
Updates all Remote branches of the Local repo from the Remote repo
```
$ git fetch   # Update the remote branches in the local working directory
```

**Note:** `fetch` only downloads the data to the local repo. It doesn’t `merge` it with the local branches even if they are tracking the remote branches that are updated.


## PULL
`pull` is short command for: `fetch`+`merge`
```
$ git fetch
$ git merge origin <branch>

# Above commands are equal to:
$ git pull origin <branch>
```

### Use pull to merge with a Remote branch
```
$ git pull                 # Merge the current Local branch with its Upstream branch
$ git pull origin master   # Merge the current Local branch with the Remote master branch
```


## MERGE
### Safe Merge Workflow
1. Always make sure that the local branches to be merged are up to date
2. Always `fetch` before `merge` - or use `pull origin <branch>` instead of `merge`
3. Always avoid `merge` conflicts from reaching master by first merging master to dev - to resolve any merge conflicts in dev instead

### Merge procedure
#### Merge master to dev
Make sure dev is up to date with master and resolve any `merge` conflicts. Check that the dev feature still works with the new updates from master\
--> Avoid redundant conflicts and eventual following bugs to reach master. **Keep master stable**
```
$ git checkout dev && git pull
$ git merge origin master        # The previous^ pull also calls fetch - don't need to do it explicitly

# resolve potential conflicts...

$ git push
```

#### Merge dev to master
```
$ git checkout master && git pull
$ git merge origin dev              # The previous^ pull also calls fetch - don't need to do it explicitly

# resolve potential conflicts...

$ git push
```

### Merging vs. Rebasing
`merge` is safer than `rebase`. Merging creates an extra merge-commit and do **not** rewrite the commit history


## REBASE
**Commit history will diverge from origin**\
**Be careful. Especially when rebasing public branches**

If you mess up, rewind history to just before the current `rebase` operation:
```
$ git rebase –-abort
```

### Rebasing instead of merging
Apply commits from one branch onto another - Without creating a merge-commit\
Result: Linear commit history, free of merge-commits\
`rebase` step: Rewinding HEAD to replay the commits of one branch on top of another branch


#### Rebase master to dev
To be able to perform the next step of Rebasing dev to master:\
The dev branch has to be Directly ahead of the Remote HEAD of the master branch -  so that Fast-Forwaring(Rebasing) is possible
```
$ git checkout dev && git pull
$ git rebase origin/master       # Rebase the new commits of master to dev - dev is now directly ahead of master

$ git status
On branch dev
Your branch and 'origin/dev' have DIVERGED,
and have 3 and 2 different commits each, respectively.
(use "git pull" to merge the remote branch into yours)

# If we pull now, we merge the rebasing with remote branch... Not what we want.
# When rebasing, you’re changing the commit history --> need to Force Push to Remote branch

$ git push -f
```

#### Rebase dev to master
```
$ git checkout master && git pull
$ git rebase origin/dev             # Rebase to Fast-Forward master to dev
$ git push
```

Or, since dev has been already been rebased on top of master:\
--> a `merge` would be performed by the **Fast-Forwarding** strategy automatically (thus **no** merge commit)
```
$ git merge origin dev
$ git push
```

### Rebasing commits on single branch
To clean up the commit history of a private branch before merging back to master

```
$ git rebase -i HEAD~n   # Interactively rebase the last n commits from HEAD

....
  # Commands:
  # p, pick <commit> = use commit
  # r, reword <commit> = use commit, but edit the commit message
  # e, edit <commit> = use commit, but stop for amending
  # s, squash <commit> = use commit, but meld into previous commit
  # f, fixup <commit> = like "squash", but discard this commit's log message
  # x, exec <command> = run command (the rest of the line) using shell
  # b, break = stop here (continue rebase later with 'git rebase --continue')
  # d, drop <commit> = remove commit
  # l, label <label> = label current HEAD with a name
  # t, reset <label> = reset HEAD to a label
  # m, merge [-C <commit> | -c <commit>] <label> [# <oneline>]
....

$ git push -f
```

_To rebase multiple commits into one: use **squash** on all commits except the oldest commit_


## DIFF/SHOW
```
$ git diff                 # Check the changes of Unstaged files compared to last commit
$ git diff <commitHash>    # Compare differences to a specific commit

$ git show                 # Check the changes of the last commit compared to the 2nd last commit
$ git show <commitHash>    # Check the changes of a specific commit
```


## LOG
```
$ git log             # Display a list of all commits to current branch and HEAD pointers
$ git log --oneline   # Cleaner log
```


## STASH
```
$ git stash           # Save changes (both staged and unstaged) of current branch and Push to the Stash Stack

$ git stash list      # List all stashed stashes on the Stack

$ git stash drop      # Drop the top Stash on the Stack
$ git stash drop i    # Drop the Stash at index i of the Stack

$ git stash apply     # Resume the latest Stash on Stack
$ git stash apply i   # Resume the Stash at index i of the Stack

$ git stash pop       # Resume the latest Stash and drop it from the Stack

$ git stash show      # Summary of the top Stash
$ git stash show i    # Summary of Stash at index i of the Stack
```


## CLEAN
Remove untracked files from current git branch
```
$ git clean -n   # Display which files will be deleted
$ git clean -f   # Delete the untracked files. Actually deletes the files so be careful
$ git clean -i   # Display the Clean interface
```


## IGNORE
Add files to the .gitignore to ignore them from being tracked by git

```
$ vim .gitignore
$ echo "AnyFile" >> .gitignore   # Concatenate
```


# Misc.
- HEAD points to the tip (most recent Commit) of current branch\
			- Or to a specific older Commit (detached HEAD)

- Master branch should be stable. Production code\
      - Use branches to develop and then `merge`/`rebase` to Master

- Remote Repo = Origin

- Remote tracking branch = Upstream branch

- Always: `pull` before `push`

- File life cycle:\
      - Untracked -> Unmodified -> Modified -> Staged -> Committed -> Pushed


## Standard commit procedure
1. **Stage(add)** the local files that you have changed and that you want to Commit
2. **Commit** the Staged  files
3. **Push** the Committed files to the Remote Repository


## Commit new branch
```
$ git checkout -b <newBranch>      # Flag -b creates a new branch

# do changes...

$ git status                       # Check which files should to be Staged
$ git add .                        # Stage all modified files
$ git commit -m “commit message“   # Commit the Staged files. -m = message
$ git push origin <newBranch>      # Push the new local branch to Remote Repo
```

**HINT** last step:\
If you are planning to `push` a new Local branch that
should track a Remote counterpart, you may want to use `-u`
to create the Remote branch and to set the Upstream config as you `push`
```
$ git push -u origin <newBranch>
```


## SETUP A NEW REPO
```
$ mkdir <folderName>
$ cd <folderName>

$ git init                              # Initialise a LOCAL git repository in current directory
$ echo "# Some git repo" >> README.md   # Creates the README.md file
$ vim .gitignore                        # Creates the .gitignore file
$ git add README.md                     # Stages the README.md file
$ git commit -m "first commit"          # Commit the Staged files
$ git remote add origin <repo url>      # Stages new Origin Repo
$ git push -u origin master             # Pushes staged Repo
```
If creating a new repo from an existing repository
```
git pull origin master --allow-unrelated-histories
```


## FAST-FORWARD
```
$ git checkout master
$ git merge hotfix
Updating f42c576..3a0874c
Fast-forward
 index.html | 2 ++
 1 file changed, 2 insertions(+)
```

You’ll notice the phrase “fast-forward” in that merge. Because the commit C4 pointed to by the branch hotfix you merged in was Directly ahead of the commit C2 on Master, Git simply moves the pointer forward. To phrase that another way, when you try to merge one commit with a commit that can be reached by following the first commit’s history, Git simplifies things by moving the pointer forward because there is no divergent work to merge together — this is called a “fast-forward.”

**--> This is the strategy of Rebasing**


Notice below the pointing of the local HEAD and and the origin HEAD of master?
--> only when the HEAD pointer of the local branch is Directly ahead of Origin/master, then Fast-Forward of main is possible:
```
$ git log
commit c708f92c46e9366cedf17811dbe098b1b74f6ec2 (HEAD -> gustav-main)
Author: GustavJaner <gustav.janer@gmail.com>
Date:   Thu Jul 18 12:24:48 2019 +0200

    [UserName] Update files after new join API of videos
    - Display username......

commit 3edfd07fe9d700e2fb1b562daa745e7df7a1cc4e (origin/master, origin/HEAD, master)
Author: GustavJaner <gustav.janer@gmail.com>
Date:   Wed Jul 17 10:43:13 2019 +0200

    [VideoPreview] Feed of video previews
    - Added a container........
```


## RECURSIVE/MERGE
```
$ git checkout master
Switched to branch 'master'
$ git merge iss53
Merge made by the 'recursive' strategy.
index.html |    1 +
1 file changed, 1 insertion(+)
```
This looks a bit different than the hotfix merge from earlier. In this case, the development history has diverged from some previous point. Because the commit on the branch you’re on isn’t a Direct ancestor of the branch you’re merging in, Git has to do some work. In this case, Git does a simple three-way merge, using the two snapshots pointed to by the branch tips and the common ancestor of the two.


## MERGE vs REBASE
If you prefer a clean, Linear history, free of any unnecessary merge-commits:
you should use git Rebase instead of git Merge when integrating changes from another branch
(git Merge creates extra merge-commits, Rebase does not)

On the other hand, if you want to preserve the complete history of your project and
avoid the risk of re-writing Public commits, you should use git Merge


## CHECKOUT out a BRANCH
Before switching branches/redirecting the HEAD pointer to another branch:
If your working directory or staging area has uncommitted changes that conflict with the branch you’re checking out, Git won’t let you switch branches.
It’s allways best practice to have a clean working state when you switch branches.

Commit message:

[Git] Add git web interface PR option of merge/rebase

docs/git.md, after:

_Author: Gustav Janér_

# Git commands

## CLONE
```
$ git clone <repoUrl>   # Download remote repository to local environment
```


## BRANCH
```
$ git branch                    # List all local branches
$ git branch -a                 # List all local and Remote branches of repo
$ git branch <newBranch>        # Creates a new branch (without 'checking it out'/redirecting HEAD)

$ git checkout <branch>         # Redirect HEAD to an existing branch
$ git checkout -b <newBranch>   # Create a new local branch and redirect HEAD to it (short command)

$ git branch -d <branch>        # Remove a Local  branch
$ git push origin :<branch>     # Remove a Remote branch
```


### Set a Remote Tracking/Upstream Branch of a local branch
#### Use flag -u when Pushing
```
$ git push -u origin <branch>   # If Remote branch does not already exist in repo: Remote branch is created and set as Upstream
```

#### Set the Upstream branch to an Existing Remote branch
```
$ git branch --set-upstream-to=origin/dev   # Set upstream branch of current branch
$ git branch -u origin/dev                  # Short command
```


## CHECKOUT
```
$ git checkout                  # Less detailed than $ git status
$ git checkout -- <file>        # Discard(--hard) changes of an Unstaged file in working directory

$ git checkout -b <newBranch>   # Create a new local branch and check out/redirect HEAD to it
$ git checkout <branch>         # Redirect HEAD to an existing branch
$ git checkout <commitHash>     # Redirect HEAD to a specific commit - Detached HEAD state
```


## ADD
Stages files for `commit`
```
$ git add .               # Stage all modified files
$ git add *               # Stage all modified files

$ git add <file>          # Stage a single file

$ git reset HEAD          # Unstage all files (--soft)
$ git reset HEAD <file>   # Unstage a single file
```



## COMMIT
```
$ git commit -m “commit message“   # Commit all Staged files with the given message
$ git commit                       # Enter text editor to write commit message. Save to commit
```


## PUSH
```
$ git push   # Push all Commits of current Local branch to its Remote Tracking branch
```

### If current Local branch has no Upstream branch
```
$ git push -u origin <branch>   # If Remote branch does not already exist in repo: Remote branch is created and set as Upstream
```

## RESET
```
$ git reset HEAD <file>    # Unstage single file
$ git reset HEAD           # Unstage all files (--soft)

$ git reset --hard         # Discard all uncommitted changes on current branch
```

**Careful:** `reset --hard`\
All local changes currently made will be **lost**. To undo a `reset`:
```
$ git reset HEAD@{1}   # CANNOT though recover changes that were NOT previously Staged
```

### Uncommit unpushed Commits
```
$ git reset --soft HEAD~1   # Reset the most recent commit - Keeping the changes of the commit
$ git reset --soft HEAD~n   # Reset the n number of recent commits

$ git reset --hard HEAD~1   # Reset the most recent commit - Discarding the changes of the commit
$ git reset --hard HEAD~n   # Reset the n number of recent commits
```

### Uncommit pushed commits
Use any of the above `reset` commands and then force `push` to remove the commit from remote branch
```
$ git push -f
```


## REVERT
Reverts a `commit` that is already pushed to Remote repo
```
$ git revert <commitHash>   # Create a new commit which reverts the changes of the commit you specified
```


## FETCH
Updates all Remote branches of the Local repo from the Remote repo
```
$ git fetch   # Update the remote branches in the local working directory
```

**Note:** `fetch` only downloads the data to the local repo. It doesn’t `merge` it with the local branches even if they are tracking the remote branches that are updated.


## PULL
`pull` is short command for: `fetch`+`merge`
```
$ git fetch
$ git merge origin <branch>

# Above commands are equal to:
$ git pull origin <branch>
```

### Use pull to merge with a Remote branch
```
$ git pull                 # Merge the current Local branch with its Upstream branch
$ git pull origin master   # Merge the current Local branch with the Remote master branch
```


## MERGE
### Safe Merge Workflow
1. Always make sure that the local branches to be merged are up to date with Upstream branches - use: `pull`
2. Always `fetch` before `merge` - or use `pull origin <branch>` instead of `merge`
3. Always avoid `merge` conflicts from reaching master by first merging master to dev - to resolve any merge conflicts in dev instead

### Merge procedure
#### Merge master to dev
Make sure dev is up to date with master and resolve any `merge` conflicts. Check that the dev feature still works with the new updates from master\
--> Avoid redundant conflicts and eventual following bugs to reach master. **Keep master stable**
```
$ git checkout dev && git pull
$ git merge origin master        # The previous^ pull also calls fetch - don't need to do it explicitly

# resolve potential conflicts...

$ git push
```

#### Merge dev to master
Create a **Pull Request(PR)** on the web interface of your Git provider, or use the Git CLI:
```
$ git checkout master && git pull
$ git merge origin dev              # The previous^ pull also calls fetch - don't need to do it explicitly

# resolve potential conflicts...

$ git push
```

### Merging vs. Rebasing
`merge` is safer than `rebase`. Merging creates an extra merge-commit and do **not** rewrite the commit history


## REBASE
**Commit history will diverge from origin**\
**Be careful. Especially when rebasing public branches**

If you mess up, rewind history to just before the current `rebase` operation:
```
$ git rebase –-abort
```

### Rebasing instead of merging
Apply commits from one branch onto another - Without creating a merge-commit\
Result: Linear commit history, free of merge-commits\
`rebase` step: Rewinding HEAD to replay the commits of one branch on top of another branch


#### Rebase master to dev
To be able to perform the next step of Rebasing dev to master:\
The dev branch has to be Directly ahead of the Remote HEAD of the master branch -  so that Fast-Forwaring(Rebasing) is possible
```
$ git checkout dev && git pull
$ git rebase origin/master       # Rebase the new commits of master to dev - dev is now directly ahead of master

$ git status
On branch dev
Your branch and 'origin/dev' have DIVERGED,
and have 3 and 2 different commits each, respectively.
(use "git pull" to merge the remote branch into yours)

# If we pull now, we merge the rebasing with remote branch... Not what we want.
# When rebasing, you’re changing the commit history --> need to Force Push to Remote branch

$ git push -f
```

#### Rebase dev to master
Create a **Pull Request(PR)** on the web interface of your Git provider, or use the Git CLI:
```
$ git checkout master && git pull
$ git rebase origin/dev             # Rebase to Fast-Forward master to dev
$ git push
```

Or, since dev has been already been rebased on top of master:\
--> a `merge` would be performed by the **Fast-Forwarding** strategy automatically (thus **no** merge commit)
```
$ git merge origin dev
$ git push
```

### Rebasing commits on single branch
To clean up the commit history of a private branch before merging back to master

```
$ git rebase -i HEAD~n   # Interactively rebase the last n commits from HEAD

....
  # Commands:
  # p, pick <commit> = use commit
  # r, reword <commit> = use commit, but edit the commit message
  # e, edit <commit> = use commit, but stop for amending
  # s, squash <commit> = use commit, but meld into previous commit
  # f, fixup <commit> = like "squash", but discard this commit's log message
  # x, exec <command> = run command (the rest of the line) using shell
  # b, break = stop here (continue rebase later with 'git rebase --continue')
  # d, drop <commit> = remove commit
  # l, label <label> = label current HEAD with a name
  # t, reset <label> = reset HEAD to a label
  # m, merge [-C <commit> | -c <commit>] <label> [# <oneline>]
....

$ git push -f
```

_To rebase multiple commits into one: use **squash** on all commits except the oldest commit_


## DIFF/SHOW
```
$ git diff                 # Check the changes of Unstaged files compared to last commit
$ git diff <commitHash>    # Compare differences to a specific commit

$ git show                 # Check the changes of the last commit compared to the 2nd last commit
$ git show <commitHash>    # Check the changes of a specific commit
```


## LOG
```
$ git log             # Display a list of all commits to current branch and HEAD pointers
$ git log --oneline   # Cleaner log
```


## STASH
```
$ git stash           # Save changes (both staged and unstaged) of current branch and Push to the Stash Stack

$ git stash list      # List all stashed stashes on the Stack

$ git stash drop      # Drop the top Stash on the Stack
$ git stash drop i    # Drop the Stash at index i of the Stack

$ git stash apply     # Resume the latest Stash on Stack
$ git stash apply i   # Resume the Stash at index i of the Stack

$ git stash pop       # Resume the latest Stash and drop it from the Stack

$ git stash show      # Summary of the top Stash
$ git stash show i    # Summary of Stash at index i of the Stack
```


## CLEAN
Remove untracked files from current git branch
```
$ git clean -n   # Display which files will be deleted
$ git clean -f   # Delete the untracked files. Actually deletes the files so be careful
$ git clean -i   # Display the Clean interface
```


## IGNORE
Add files to the .gitignore to ignore them from being tracked by git

```
$ vim .gitignore
$ echo "AnyFile" >> .gitignore   # Concatenate
```


# Misc.
- HEAD points to the tip (most recent Commit) of current branch\
			- Or to a specific older Commit (detached HEAD)

- Master branch should be stable. Production code\
      - Use branches to develop and then `merge`/`rebase` to Master

- Remote Repo = Origin

- Remote tracking branch = Upstream branch

- Always: `pull` before `push`

- File life cycle:\
      - Untracked -> Unmodified -> Modified -> Staged -> Committed -> Pushed


## Standard commit procedure
1. **Stage(add)** the local files that you have changed and that you want to Commit
2. **Commit** the Staged  files
3. **Push** the Committed files to the Remote Repository


## Commit new branch
```
$ git checkout -b <newBranch>      # Flag -b creates a new branch

# do changes...

$ git status                       # Check which files should to be Staged
$ git add .                        # Stage all modified files
$ git commit -m “commit message“   # Commit the Staged files. -m = message
$ git push origin <newBranch>      # Push the new local branch to Remote Repo
```

**HINT** last step:\
If you are planning to `push` a new Local branch that
should track a Remote counterpart, you may want to use `-u`
to create the Remote branch and to set the Upstream config as you `push`
```
$ git push -u origin <newBranch>
```


## SETUP A NEW REPO
```
$ mkdir <folderName>
$ cd <folderName>

$ git init                              # Initialise a LOCAL git repository in current directory
$ echo "# Some git repo" >> README.md   # Creates the README.md file
$ vim .gitignore                        # Creates the .gitignore file
$ git add README.md                     # Stages the README.md file
$ git commit -m "first commit"          # Commit the Staged files
$ git remote add origin <repo url>      # Stages new Origin Repo
$ git push -u origin master             # Pushes staged Repo
```
If creating a new repo from an existing repository
```
git pull origin master --allow-unrelated-histories
```


## FAST-FORWARD
```
$ git checkout master
$ git merge hotfix
Updating f42c576..3a0874c
Fast-forward
 index.html | 2 ++
 1 file changed, 2 insertions(+)
```

You’ll notice the phrase “fast-forward” in that merge. Because the commit C4 pointed to by the branch hotfix you merged in was Directly ahead of the commit C2 on Master, Git simply moves the pointer forward. To phrase that another way, when you try to merge one commit with a commit that can be reached by following the first commit’s history, Git simplifies things by moving the pointer forward because there is no divergent work to merge together — this is called a “fast-forward.”

**--> This is the strategy of Rebasing**


Notice below the pointing of the local HEAD and and the origin HEAD of master?
--> only when the HEAD pointer of the local branch is Directly ahead of Origin/master, then Fast-Forward of main is possible:
```
$ git log
commit c708f92c46e9366cedf17811dbe098b1b74f6ec2 (HEAD -> gustav-main)
Author: GustavJaner <gustav.janer@gmail.com>
Date:   Thu Jul 18 12:24:48 2019 +0200

    [UserName] Update files after new join API of videos
    - Display username......

commit 3edfd07fe9d700e2fb1b562daa745e7df7a1cc4e (origin/master, origin/HEAD, master)
Author: GustavJaner <gustav.janer@gmail.com>
Date:   Wed Jul 17 10:43:13 2019 +0200

    [VideoPreview] Feed of video previews
    - Added a container........
```


## RECURSIVE/MERGE
```
$ git checkout master
Switched to branch 'master'
$ git merge iss53
Merge made by the 'recursive' strategy.
index.html |    1 +
1 file changed, 1 insertion(+)
```
This looks a bit different than the hotfix merge from earlier. In this case, the development history has diverged from some previous point. Because the commit on the branch you’re on isn’t a Direct ancestor of the branch you’re merging in, Git has to do some work. In this case, Git does a simple three-way merge, using the two snapshots pointed to by the branch tips and the common ancestor of the two.


## MERGE vs REBASE
If you prefer a clean, Linear history, free of any unnecessary merge-commits:
you should use git Rebase instead of git Merge when integrating changes from another branch
(git Merge creates extra merge-commits, Rebase does not)

On the other hand, if you want to preserve the complete history of your project and
avoid the risk of re-writing Public commits, you should use git Merge


## CHECKOUT out a BRANCH
Before switching branches/redirecting the HEAD pointer to another branch:
If your working directory or staging area has uncommitted changes that conflict with the branch you’re checking out, Git won’t let you switch branches.
It’s allways best practice to have a clean working state when you switch branches.
